# __Setting Up__

There are multiple ways to deploy Dagster as an application: using Docker, using Kubernetes, using Dagster Cloud, etc. However, this guide will only outline the steps to set up Dagster using Docker on an AWS EC2 instance. The setup involves configuring workspace.yaml, dagster.yaml, Dockerfile and a docker-compose.yaml to orchestrate the deployment of the Dagster and PostgreSQL services.

## __Workspace Configuration__

The workspace.yaml file configures your code location server. It should be placed in the same directory as your Dockerfile. The configuration might look like this:

```yaml title="dagster_project/workspace.yaml" linenums="1"
load_from:
  - python_module: orchestration
  - python_module: orchestration-dbt
```

This configuration sets up two code locations, `orchestration` and `orchestration-dbt`, for different aspects of your data pipeline.

## __Dagster Configuration__

The dagster.yaml file is used to configure various aspects of your Dagster instance:

```yaml title="dagster_project/dagster.yaml" linenums="1"
compute_logs:
  module: dagster.core.storage.local_compute_log_manager
  class: LocalComputeLogManager
  config:
    base_dir: ./compute_logs

local_artifact_storage:
  module: dagster.core.storage.root
  class: LocalArtifactStorage
  config:
    base_dir: ./local_artifact_storage

storage:
  postgres:
    postgres_db:
      username: ******
      password: ******
      hostname: ******
      db_name: ******
      port: 5432

telemetry:
  enabled: False

scheduler:
  module: dagster.core.scheduler
  class: DagsterDaemonScheduler

run_coordinator:
  module: dagster.core.run_coordinator
  class: QueuedRunCoordinator
```

### __Compute Logs__

- ***Purpose***: Controls the capture and persistence of raw `stdout` and `stderr` ext logs.
- ***Configuration***:
    - ***`module`***: Specifies the module `dagster.core.storage.local_compute_log_manager`.
    - ***`class`***: Uses the `LocalComputeLogManager` class to manage local compute logs.
    - ***`config`***:
        - ***`base_dir`***: Defines the base directory `(./compute_logs)` where Dagster will store its computation logs. This directory should be accessible to the Dagster instance for read/write operations.

### __Local Artifact Storage__

- ***Purpose***: Configures storage for artifacts that require a local disk or when using the filesystem I/O manager (FilesytemIOManager).
- ***Configuration***: 
  - ***`module`***: Refers to the `dagster.core.storage.root module`.
  - ***`class`***: Uses the `LocalArtifactStorage` class, which provides mechanisms for storing artifacts locally.
  - ***`config`***:
      - ***`base_dir`***: Sets the directory `(./local_artifact_storage)` for storing artifacts. This should be a writable location accessible to the Dagster instance.

### __Dagster Storage__

- ***Purpose***: Controls how job and asset history is persisted. This includes run, event log, and schedule/sensor tick metadata, as well as other useful data.
- ***Configuration***:
  - ***`postgres`***: Specifies the use of `PostgreSQL` as the storage backend.
      - ***`postgres_db`***: Configuration details for connecting to the PostgreSQL database.
          - ***`username`***: Username for the database.
          - ***`password`***: Password for the database.
          - ***`hostname`***: Hostname or IP address where the PostgreSQL server is running.
          - ***`db_name`***: Name of the database to use.
          - ***`port`***: Port number on which PostgreSQL is listening (default is 5432).

### __Telemetry__

- ***Purpose***: Used to opt in/out of Dagster collecting anonymized usage statistics.
- ***Configuration***:
    - ***`enabled`***: A boolean value (True or False). Set to False to disable telemetry and prevent sending any data.

### __Scheduler__

- ***Purpose***: Determines how pipeline schedules are managed and executed.
- ***Configuration***:
    - ***`module`***: Specifies the module `dagster.core.scheduler`.
    - ***`class`***: Uses the `DagsterDaemonScheduler` class. This scheduler is a part of the Dagster daemon process and is responsible for scheduling and launching pipeline runs based on predefined schedules.

### __Run Coordinator__

- ***Purpose***: Determines the policy used to set prioritization rules and concurrency limits for runs.
- ***Configuration***:
    - ***`module`***: Refers to `dagster.core.run_coordinator`.
    - ***`class`***: The `QueuedRunCoordinator` class is used here. It provides functionality for queuing run requests and determining the order of execution. This is especially useful in scenarios where multiple pipeline runs are triggered, and there is a need to manage their execution order efficiently.

## __Dockerfile__

The Dockerfile sets up an image for Dagster using the code in the project directory:

```Dockerfile title="dagster_project/Dockerfile" linenums="1"
# Dagster
FROM python:3.8-slim as dagster

# Update and upgrade the system packages
RUN apt-get update && apt-get upgrade -yqq

# Set an environment variable for Dagster's home directory
ENV DAGSTER_HOME=/opt/dagster/dagster_home/

# Create the Dagster home directory
RUN mkdir -p $DAGSTER_HOME

# Set the working directory to Dagster's home
WORKDIR $DAGSTER_HOME

# Copy necessary files into the working directory
COPY requirement.txt dagster.yaml workspace.yaml .env $DAGSTER_HOME

# Install the dependencies from the requirements file
RUN pip install -r requirement.txt

# Copy the project directories into the container
COPY /orchestration $DAGSTER_HOME/orchestration
COPY /orchestration-dbt $DAGSTER_HOME/orchestration-dbt
COPY /dbt_cloud $DAGSTER_HOME/dbt_cloud

# Expose port 3000 for web access
EXPOSE 3000

# Define the command to run the Dagster webserver
CMD ["sh", "-c", "dagster-webserver -h 0.0.0.0 -p 3000 & dagster-daemon run"]
```

## __Docker Compose__

The Docker Compose file sets up two services: `postgres` and `dagster`.

```yaml title="dagster_project/docker-compose.yaml" linenums="1"
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:15
    container_name: postgres
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: *****
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: *****
      POSTGRES_DB: *****
    restart: on-failure
    networks:
      - dagster_network
    volumes:
      - ./postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data

  dagster:
    build: .
    ports:
      - 3000:3000
    volumes:
      - ./orchestration:/opt/dagster/dagster_home/orchestration 
      - ./compute_logs:/opt/dagster/dagster_home/compute_logs
      - ./local_artifact_storage:/opt/dagster/dagster_home/local_artifact_storage
    restart: on-failure
    networks:
      - dagster_network
    depends_on:
      - postgres
      
networks:
  dagster_network:
    driver: bridge
```

### __Postgres Service__

- ***Image***: Utilizes the postgres:15 image from DockerHub, ensuring the use of a specific, stable version of PostgreSQL.
- ***Container name***: `postgres`
- ***Environment variables***:
    - ***POSTGRES_USER***: Username for PostgreSQL.
    - ***POSTGRES_PASSWORD***:  Password for PostgreSQL.
    - ***POSTGRES_DB***: Database name for PostgreSQL.
- ***Restart Policy***: Configured to restart on failure, enhancing reliability.
- ***Networks***: Joins the dagster_network, allowing network communication with the Dagster service.
- ***Volumes***: Maps the local directory `./postgres_data` to `/var/lib/postgresql/data` within the container. This mapping persists the database data across container restarts and removals.

### __Dagster Service__

- ***Image***: Built from the Dockerfile located in the current directory, ensuring a custom environment tailored for Dagster.
- ***Port***: Exposes port 3000, making the Dagster web interface accessible on this port.
- ***Volumes***: 
    - Maps `./orchestration` to `/opt/dagster/dagster_home/orchestration` for the orchestration code.
    - Maps `./compute_logs` to `/opt/dagster/dagster_home/compute_logs` for storing compute logs.
    - Maps `./local_artifact_storage` to `/opt/dagster/dagster_home/local_artifact_storage` for local artifact storage.
- ***Restart Policy***: Set to restart on failure, ensuring service continuity.
- ***Networks***: Connects to the dagster_network, enabling communication with the PostgreSQL service.
- ***Dependency***: Configured to depend on the postgres service, ensuring that it starts only after the postgres service is up and running.

### __Network Configuration__

- ***Dagster Network***: A dedicated network named dagster_network is created using the bridge driver. This network facilitates isolated communication between the postgres and dagster services.