# __Warehouse Sizing__

## __Introduction__

Warehouse sizing in Snowflake is a critical aspect of cost optimization and performance tuning. This guide delves into the nuances of warehouse sizing, offering insights into best practices for selecting the appropriate warehouse size for various workloads. By understanding and implementing optimal warehouse sizing strategies, we can achieve a balance between cost-efficiency and performance effectiveness.

## __Importance__

-   ***Cost management***: Warehouse size directly impacts the cost. Larger warehouses consume more credits per hour.
-   ***Performance***: Adequate sizing ensures queries are executed efficiently, avoiding both underutilization and overutilization of resources.
-   ***Concurrency***: Proper sizing can manage multiple concurrent queries without performance degradation.

## __Strategy__

The previous implementation only employed a single medium-sized warehouse for all dbt models, which resulted in a lengthy runtime of more than 6 hours. This was the case even when Snowflake had fewer data sources. A major issue encountered was the excessive queueing of view queries and the inefficient sharing of resources between large and small table queries, leading to prolonged runtimes for both.

To overcome these challenges, we implemented a strategic shift known as the "Dual Warehouse Strategy." This approach involves:

-   ***Smaller warehouses for light tasks***: Running views or querying small tables doesn't require much horsepower. Here, we use an extra small warehouse (XS). They are cost-effective and can handle these tasks with ease.
-   ***Medium warehouses for heavy lifting***: For processing large tables or complex joins, a medium warehouse (M) is employed. While a medium warehouse costs more per hour, its faster runtime ensures efficiency. This efficiency results in a shorter period of warehouse operation, ultimately saving costs by reducing the time larger queries tie up resources.

By using this “Dual Warehouse Strategy” we have ensured to achieve the following:

-   ***Resource optimization***: Running smaller and medium warehouses concurrently prevents wastage of credits on the medium warehouse for smaller queries.
-   ***Enhanced runtime efficiency***: This approach minimizes the runtime of the pipeline with fewer queued queries, leading to more efficient operations.
-   ***Reduced uptime***: By optimizing the workload, the uptime for both warehouses is minimized, contributing to cost savings.
-   ***Timely pipeline execution***: The implementation of this dual-warehouse strategy has drastically reduced our pipeline runtime from 6 hours to just 1 hour, indicating a significant increase in efficiency.

!!! note

    It's important to mention that the overall efficiency gains are not solely due to warehouse sizing. They are also a result of various other model optimization techniques, which are discussed in upcoming sections.

## __Code implementation__

### __Creating get warehouse macro__

To enable the functionality of this strategy, we've developed a macro named get_warehouse. This macro comes into play when determining the warehouse to use. In cases where the warehouse name is not explicitly provided, or the macro isn't called, the system defaults to using the warehouse specified in the profiles.yml file under the default configuration.

=== "Macro definition"

    ```sql title="dbt_project/macros/get_warehouse.sql" linenums="1"
    {% macro get_warehouse(warehouse_name) %}
        {% if target.name in ['prod', 'default'] %}
            {{ return(warehouse_name) }}
        {% else %}
            {{ return(target.warehouse) }}
        {% endif %}
    {% endmacro %}
    ```

=== "Default warehouse config"

    ```yaml title="dbt_project/profiles.yml" linenums="1" hl_lines="11"
    dbt_project:
    target: prod
    outputs:
        prod:
        type: snowflake
        account: *****
        user: *****
        password: *****
        role: *****
        database: *****
        warehouse: transforming_warehouse_xs
        schema: *****
        threads: 1
        client_session_keep_alive: False
    ```

### __Defining models__

The warehouse name should then be defined in the configuration of a model. This warehouse is then evaluated during runtime.

=== "Default warehouse"

    ```sql title="model.sql" linenums="1" hl_lines="5"
    -- Using default warehouse: TRANSFORMING_WAREHOUSE_XS (XS)
    {{
        config(
            materialized = 'table'
            
        )
    }}
    ```

=== "Specified warehouse"

    ```sql title="model.sql" linenums="1" hl_lines="5"
    -- Using specified warehouse: TRANSFORMING_WARHOUSE (M)
    {{
        config(
            materialized = 'table'
            ,snowflake_warehouse = get_warehouse('transforming_warehouse')
        )
    }}
    ```